Hey, pass me a beer, man
Here you go
Man, that nigga been standing there
On the same goddamn spot slangin' that shit
For about the last 4-5 days, man
With the same clothes on, ain't even been home yet
I don't even think so
I wonder if he's smoking or selling that shit
He had to be smoking or snortin' something
To be up for them 4-5 days
I heard he shot somebody, man
For real?
That's the reason why he probably can't go home
Yeah, you know like what you call been missing too, man
I think that's the nigga he supposed
To be frontin' his money to
That's why, that's why the police
Been drivin' around so hard (blunt to my lips)
Yeah, burning the spot up man, yeah (gun on my hip)
Yeah, we might need to gone call (rocks in my sock)
528-CASH on that nigga ass (pocket full of chips)
(Watchin' for the pigs)
(Splittin' hater's wigs) and turn him on in
We need to, man
(Stackin' me some grip) to make that little change, man
Get some mo' beers or somethin' (player, can you dig?)
(Blunt to my lips) Yeah, we gone do that
(Gun on my hip) Need to hurry up and gone
Turn that nigga ass in, man (rocks in my sock)
Make this neighborhood
Probably a little bit safer, man (pocket full of chips)
A little bit more (watchin' for the pigs)
At least for us (splittin' hater's wigs)
Or something, dang (stackin' me some grip)
Player, can you dig?
Project Pat, a nigga that's down for his crown, mane
If yo' ass step, I'mma be down town, mane
Fourth floor bound mane, that's if I get caught, mane
Pushed me to the edge, so it really ain't my fault, mane
See, I gotta die mane, don't you even try, mane
Enemies gonna bleed once I let these bullets fly, mane
Momma gonna cry, mane, I like to get high, mane
Niggas passin' plates, snorting line after line, mane
I got's to get mine, mane, robbin' was the crime, mane
That a nigga did, but I done served my time, mane
Put that all behind, mane, get out on the grind, mane
Slang some of this dope, in the street or my ride, mane
See, I ain't a fool, mane, fuck listenin' to you, mane
Why you in my grill
And you knowin' we ain't cool, mane
Project ain't a duck, mane, see, I know what's up, mane
Get up off my dick, like a motherfuckin' slut, mane
Blunt to my lips, gun on my hip
Rocks in my sock, pocket full of chips
Watchin' for the pigs, splittin' hater's wigs
Stackin' me some grip, player, can you dig?
Blunt to my lips, gun on my hip
Rocks in my sock, pocket full of chips
Watchin' for the pigs, splittin' hater's wigs
Stackin' me some grip, player, can you dig?
Where I'm from, mane, ain't no sunshine gonna shine
On a dog's ass if his ass don't get on a grind
Doing time helped a nigga out, to clear up my head
Used to have a shank in the light, that was by my bed
It was said, I would end up dead, working in the street
But the street is the only thing I see paying me
Quarter-ki, fuck servin' deals, rockin' to the shake
Slanging guns, slanging TV's, mane I'm tryna' make
All I can, my nigga, French ho Poncho at a ho's house
Get her drunk, take her to the back
Put dick in her mouth
Leave the front door unlocked, my nig turn the radio
Pulled the car up into the yard, cleaning out the ho
You should know that a burglary, really ain't for me
I just got out the 'tentiary, tryna' get on my feet
Get the cheese, off the merchandise
Went and bought a deal
Nigga, please, you say you don't steal, I'mma keep it real
Blunt to my lips, gun on my hip
Rocks in my sock, pocket full of chips
Watchin' for the pigs, splittin' hater's wigs
Stackin' me some grip, player, can you dig?
Blunt to my lips, gun on my hip
Rocks in my sock, pocket full of chips
Watchin' for the pigs, splittin' hater's wigs
Stackin' me some grip, player, can you dig?
Haters like to get a playa twisted in that bullshitta
A game-spitter, I'm also a wig-splitter
Yo' ass getta, shot up by the nine milla
Your cap I drilla, when fuckin' with a real nigga
The chrome trigga' should regulate a punk quicker
The bullet hit ya', I'm zoned off that brown liquor
You need to get ya' nose out a nigga's biz
Quit spreading rumors like a motherfuckin' punk, bitch
My trunk is the bed for a kidnap victim
Hollowpoint hit him
Pull out my gun your hands you get them
Up in the airra because you came to me in error
Don't want to scare ya'
Say you a man, then face the terror
I know these bullets will pop ya' shit off like a melon
Let's bust it up, bad as fuck, man, who you tellin'
It's armageddon, in North Memphis crack we sellin'
You pass me that purple weed, is what they yellin'
Blunt to my lips, gun on my hip
Rocks in my sock, pocket full of chips
Watchin' for the pigs, splittin' hater's wigs

When  Mr.  Bilbo  Baggins  of  Bag  End  announced  that  he 
would  shortly  be  celebrating  his  eleventy-first  birthday  with 
a  party  of  special  magnificence,  there  was  much  talk  and 
excitement  in  Hobbiton. 

Bilbo  was  very  rich  and  very  peculiar,  and  had  been  the 
wonder  of  the  Shire  for  sixty  years,  ever  since  his  remarkable 
disappearance  and  unexpected  return.  The  riches  he  had 
brought  back  from  his  travels  had  now  become  a  local  legend, 
and  it  was  popularly  believed,  whatever  the  old  folk  might 
say,  that  the  Hill  at  Bag  End  was  full  of  tunnels  stuffed  with 
treasure.  And  if  that  was  not  enough  for  fame,  there  was  also 
his  prolonged  vigour  to  marvel  at.  Time  wore  on,  but  it 
seemed  to  have  little  effect  on  Mr.  Baggins.  At  ninety  he  was 
much  the  same  as  at  fifty.  At  ninety-nine  they  began  to  call 
him  well-preserved,  but  unchanged  would  have  been  nearer  the 
mark.  There  were  some  that  shook  their  heads  and  thought 
this  was  too  much  of  a  good  thing;  it  seemed  unfair  that 
anyone  should  possess  (apparently)  perpetual  youth  as  well 
as  (reputedly)  inexhaustible  wealth. 

‘It  will  have  to  be  paid  for,’  they  said.  ‘It  isn’t  natural,  and 
trouble  will  come  of  it!’ 

But  so  far  trouble  had  not  come;  and  as  Mr.  Baggins  was 
generous  with  his  money,  most  people  were  willing  to  for¬ 
give  him  his  oddities  and  his  good  fortune.  He  remained 
on  visiting  terms  with  his  relatives  (except,  of  course,  the 
Sackville-Bagginses),  and  he  had  many  devoted  admirers 
among  the  hobbits  of  poor  and  unimportant  families.  But  he 
had  no  close  friends,  until  some  of  his  younger  cousins  began 
to  grow  up. 


Here's the thing. You said a "wyvern is a dragon." Is it in the same family? Yes. No one's arguing that. As someone who is a 1k MMR feeder who studies dragons, I am telling you, specifically, in dota, no one calls wyverns dragons. If you want to be "specific" like you said, then you shouldn't either. They're not the same thing. If you're saying "dragon family" you're referring to the taxonomic grouping of Varanidae, which includes things from wyverns to eldwurms to drakes. So your reasoning for calling a wyvern a dragon is because random people "call the flying lizards dragons?" Let's get gyarados and charizards in there, then, too. Also, calling someone a noob or a feeder? It's not one or the other, that's not how taxonomy works. They're both. A wyvern is a wyvern and a member of the dragon family. But that's not what you said. You said a wyvern is a dragon, which is not true unless you're okay with calling all members of the dragon family dragons, which means you'd call eldwurms, drakes, and other flying lizards dragons, too. Which you said you don't. It's okay to just admit you're wrong, you know?

I have a morning ritual that I need to share. I call it "the terminator". First I crouch down in the shower in the classic "naked terminator traveling through time" pose. With my eyes closed I crouch there for a minute, visualizing either Arnold or the guy from the second movie (not the chick in the third one because that one sucked) and I start to hum the terminator theme. Then I slowly rise to a standing position and open my eyes. It helps me to proceed through my day as an emotionless, cyborg badass. The only problem is if the shower curtain sticks to my terminator leg. It ruins the fantasy.


What the fuck did you just fucking say about me, you little bitch? Ill have you know I graduated top of my class in the Navy Seals, and Ive been involved in numerous secret raids on Al-Quaeda, and I have over 300 confirmed kills. I am trained in gorilla warfare and Im the top sniper in the entire US armed forces. You are nothing to me but just another target. I will wipe you the fuck out with precision the likes of which has never been seen before on this Earth, mark my fucking words. You think you can get away with saying that shit to me over the Internet? Think again, fucker. As we speak I am contacting my secret network of spies across the USA and your IP is being traced right now so you better prepare for the storm, maggot. The storm that wipes out the pathetic little thing you call your life. Youre fucking dead, kid. I can be anywhere, anytime, and I can kill you in over seven hundred ways, and thats just with my bare hands. Not only am I extensively trained in unarmed combat, but I have access to the entire arsenal of the United States Marine Corps and I will use it to its full extent to wipe your miserable ass off the face of the continent, you little shit. If only you could have known what unholy retribution your little clever comment was about to bring down upon you, maybe you would have held your fucking tongue. But you couldnt, you didn't, and now youre paying the price, you goddamn idiot. I will shit fury all over you and you will drown in it. You're fucking dead, kiddo.

Yeah
Yeah
Big Za

Left pocket full of pink fifties, right pocket got blues in it (Beep, beep, beep)
Plug send them packs to me, I know what to do with it (Brrt)
Thousand-dollar shoes, I'm walkin' on a damn ounce (Nigga)
He ain't runnin' up a bag, he runnin' his damn mouth (Pussy)
I'm Mr. Swang a Door (Yeah), Mr. Beat the Road (Yeah)
Two thousand on a coat (Nigga), steppin' on they throat (Nigga)
I'm Mr. Ride Foreign (Ride Foreign), I'm Mr. Ain't Goin' (No)
He Mr. Pump Faker, I'm Mr. Pot Scraper

The way I'm drivin' the—, I just might wreck or somethin' (Yoom)
Why would I chase a bitch? I can go chase a check or somethin' (Nigga)
You ain't talkin' 'bout no money, nigga, burn up, nigga (Burn up, nigga)
Fuckin' with the yeah got me turnt up, nigga (Yeah)
Nigga too slippery, walk in the club and make a mess (Yeah)
They thought a nigga was sweatin', all this water on my chest (Bling)
Yeah, I want M's, nigga, I ain't settlin' for less (No)
I ain't DJ Khaled, baby, but you know we the best (We the best, baby)
Nigga, I ain't fuckin' off, I done seen a hundred ball (Nigga)
Flip phone—, trap doin' somersaults (Trap)
Nigga, I ain't fuckin' off, I done seen a hundred ball (Nigga)
Flip phone—, trap doin' somersaults (Yeah)
Trap doin' hurdles, nigga
Your phone like a turtle, nigga
You is not no fuckin' boss, you know you a worker, nigga
I'm a fuckin' splurger, nigga, I'm a dope server, nigga
Real street nigga, foreign whip swerver, nigga (Yoom)

Left pocket full of pink fifties, right pocket got blues in it (Beep, beep, beep)
Plug send them packs to me, I know what to do with it (Brrt)
Thousand-dollar shoes, I'm walkin' on a damn ounce (Nigga)
He ain't runnin' up a bag, he runnin' his damn mouth (Pussy)
I'm Mr. Swang a Door (Yeah), Mr. Beat the Road (Yeah)
Two thousand on a coat (Nigga), steppin' on they throat (Nigga)
I'm Mr. Ride Foreign (Ride Foreign), I'm Mr. Ain't Goin' (No)
He Mr. Pump Faker, I'm Mr. Pot Scraper

Damn
Nigga, nigga
(Big Za) Yeah, pussy
(Big Za) nigga
Yeah

Diamonds on me dancin', pinky ring full of crystals, baby
Big Za out in the building, come and take a picture, bae
Young nigga poppin' shit, you know I'm that nigga, bae
Wristpiece on bling-glow, neckpiece on blizzard, baby

I throw some ones, baby, you do that dance on me (Baby)
I'll throw a thousand more, keep shakin' that ass on me (Baby)
Young nigga riding around with a—
Yeah (Yeah)
Young nigga riding around, fifty thousand cash on me

Hoppin' out a black truck, Off-White fit, nigga
It took a lot of grinding just to talk this shit, nigga
Read up on some—, I gotta get on for these bitches, nigga
Pockets full of—, I'm startin' to walk like a chicken, nigga
Speed limit twenty-five, got caught doin' sixty, nigga
Fifteen hundred on Balenciagas, it cost just to kick it, nigga
I'm that nigga, bae, I feel myself
I'm drivin' this bitch like I wanna kill myself

Diamonds on me dancin', pinky ring full of crystals, baby
Big Za out in the building, come and take a picture, bae
Young nigga poppin' shit, you know I'm that nigga, bae
Wristpiece bling-glow, neckpiece blizzard, baby

I throw some ones, baby, you do that dance on me (Baby)
I'll throw a thousand more, keep shakin' that ass on me (Baby)
Young nigga riding around with a—
Yeah (Yeah)
Young nigga riding around, fifty thousand cash on me



28 


THE  FELLOWSHIP  OF  THE  RING 


The  eldest  of  these,  and  Bilbo’s  favourite,  was  young  Frodo 
Baggins.  When  Bilbo  was  ninety-nine  he  adopted  Frodo  as 
his  heir,  and  brought  him  to  live  at  Bag  End;  and  the  hopes  of 
the  Sackville-Bagginses  were  finally  dashed.  Bilbo  and  Frodo 
happened  to  have  the  same  birthday,  September  22nd.  ‘You 
had  better  come  and  live  here,  Frodo  my  lad,’  said  Bilbo 
one  day;  ‘and  then  we  can  celebrate  our  birthday-parties 
comfortably  together.’  At  that  time  Frodo  was  still  in  his 
tweens,  as  the  hobbits  called  the  irresponsible  twenties 
between  childhood  and  coming  of  age  at  thirty-three. 

Twelve  more  years  passed.  Each  year  the  Bagginses  had 
given  very  lively  combined  birthday-parties  at  Bag  End;  but 
now  it  was  understood  that  something  quite  exceptional 
was  being  planned  for  that  autumn.  Bilbo  was  going  to  be 
eleventy-one,  ill,  a  rather  curious  number,  and  a  very  re¬ 
spectable  age  for  a  hobbit  (the  Old  Took  himself  had  only 
reached  130);  and  Frodo  was  going  to  be  thirty-three,  33,  an 
important  number:  the  date  of  his  ‘coming  of  age’. 

Tongues  began  to  wag  in  Hobbiton  and  Bywater;  and 
rumour  of  the  coming  event  travelled  all  over  the  Shire.  The 
history  and  character  of  Mr.  Bilbo  Baggins  became  once 
again  the  chief  topic  of  conversation;  and  the  older  folk 
suddenly  found  their  reminiscences  in  welcome  demand. 

No  one  had  a  more  attentive  audience  than  old  Flam 
Gamgee,  commonly  known  as  the  Gaffer.  Fie  held  forth  at 
The  Ivy  Bush,  a  small  inn  on  the  Bywater  road;  and  he  spoke 
with  some  authority,  for  he  had  tended  the  garden  at  Bag 
End  for  forty  years,  and  had  helped  old  Holman  in  the  same 
job  before  that.  Now  that  he  was  himself  growing  old  and 
stiff  in  the  joints,  the  job  was  mainly  carried  on  by  his  young¬ 
est  son,  Sam  Gamgee.  Both  father  and  son  were  on  very 
friendly  terms  with  Bilbo  and  Frodo.  They  lived  on  the  Hill 
itself,  in  Number  3  Bagshot  Row  just  below  Bag  End. 

‘A  very  nice  well-spoken  gentlehobbit  is  Mr.  Bilbo,  as  I’ve 
always  said,’  the  Gaffer  declared.  With  perfect  truth:  for  Bilbo 
was  very  polite  to  him,  calling  him  ‘Master  Hamfast’,  and 


A  LONG-EXPECTED  PARTY 


29 


consulting  him  constantly  upon  the  growing  of  vegetables  - 
in  the  matter  of  ‘roots’,  especially  potatoes,  the  Gaffer  was 
recognized  as  the  leading  authority  by  all  in  the  neighbour¬ 
hood  (including  himself) . 

‘But  what  about  this  Frodo  that  lives  with  him?’  asked  Old 
Noakes  of  Bywater.  ‘Baggins  is  his  name,  but  he’s  more  than 
half  a  Brandybuck,  they  say.  It  beats  me  why  any  Baggins 
of  Hobbiton  should  go  looking  for  a  wife  away  there  in 
Buckland,  where  folks  are  so  queer.’ 

‘And  no  wonder  they’re  queer,’  put  in  Daddy  Twofoot 
(the  Gaffer’s  next-door  neighbour),  ‘if  they  live  on  the  wrong 
side  of  the  Brandywine  River,  and  right  agin  the  Old  Forest. 
That’s  a  dark  bad  place,  if  half  the  tales  be  true.’ 

‘You’re  right,  Dad!’  said  the  Gaffer.  ‘Not  that  the  Brandy- 
bucks  of  Buckland  live  in  the  Old  Forest;  but  they’re  a  queer 
breed,  seemingly.  They  fool  about  with  boats  on  that  big 
river  -  and  that  isn’t  natural.  Small  wonder  that  trouble  came 
of  it,  I  say.  But  be  that  as  it  may,  Mr.  Frodo  is  as  nice  a 
young  hobbit  as  you  could  wish  to  meet.  Very  much  like 
Mr.  Bilbo,  and  in  more  than  looks.  After  all  his  father  was 
a  Baggins.  A  decent  respectable  hobbit  was  Mr.  Drogo 
Baggins;  there  was  never  much  to  tell  of  him,  till  he  was 
drownded.’ 

‘Drownded?’  said  several  voices.  They  had  heard  this  and 
other  darker  rumours  before,  of  course;  but  hobbits  have  a 
passion  for  family  history,  and  they  were  ready  to  hear  it 
again. 

‘Well,  so  they  say,’  said  the  Gaffer.  ‘You  see:  Mr.  Drogo, 
he  married  poor  Miss  Primula  Brandybuck.  She  was  our  Mr. 
Bilbo’s  first  cousin  on  the  mother’s  side  (her  mother  being 
the  youngest  of  the  Old  Took’s  daughters);  and  Mr.  Drogo 
was  his  second  cousin.  So  Mr.  Frodo  is  his  first  and  second 
cousin,  once  removed  either  way,  as  the  saying  is,  if  you 
follow  me.  And  Mr.  Drogo  was  staying  at  Brandy  Hall  with 
his  father-in-law,  old  Master  Gorbadoc,  as  he  often  did 
after  his  marriage  (him  being  partial  to  his  vittles,  and  old 
Gorbadoc  keeping  a  mighty  generous  table) ;  and  he  went  out 


30 


THE  FELLOWSHIP  OF  THE  RING 


boating  on  the  Brandywine  River;  and  he  and  his  wife  were 
drownded,  and  poor  Mr.  Frodo  only  a  child  and  all.’ 

‘I’ve  heard  they  went  on  the  water  after  dinner  in  the 
moonlight,’  said  Old  Noakes;  ‘and  it  was  Drogo’s  weight  as 
sunk  the  boat.’ 

‘And  /  heard  she  pushed  him  in,  and  he  pulled  her  in  after 
him,’  said  Sandyman,  the  Hobbiton  miller. 

‘You  shouldn’t  listen  to  all  you  hear,  Sandyman,’  said  the 
Gaffer,  who  did  not  much  like  the  miller.  ‘There  isn’t  no  call 
to  go  talking  of  pushing  and  pulling.  Boats  are  quite  tricky 
enough  for  those  that  sit  still  without  looking  further  for  the 
cause  of  trouble.  Anyway:  there  was  this  Mr.  Frodo  left  an 
orphan  and  stranded,  as  you  might  say,  among  those  queer 
Bucklanders,  being  brought  up  anyhow  in  Brandy  Hall.  A 
regular  warren,  by  all  accounts.  Old  Master  Gorbadoc  never 
had  fewer  than  a  couple  of  hundred  relations  in  the  place. 
Mr.  Bilbo  never  did  a  kinder  deed  than  when  he  brought  the 
lad  back  to  live  among  decent  folk. 

‘But  I  reckon  it  was  a  nasty  knock  for  those  Sackville- 
Bagginses.  They  thought  they  were  going  to  get  Bag  End, 
that  time  when  he  went  off  and  was  thought  to  be  dead.  And 
then  he  comes  back  and  orders  them  off;  and  he  goes  on 
living  and  living,  and  never  looking  a  day  older,  bless  him! 
And  suddenly  he  produces  an  heir,  and  has  all  the  papers 
made  out  proper.  The  Sackville-Bagginses  won’t  never  see 
the  inside  of  Bag  End  now,  or  it  is  to  be  hoped  not.’ 

‘There’s  a  tidy  bit  of  money  tucked  away  up  there,  I  hear 
tell,’  said  a  stranger,  a  visitor  on  business  from  Michel 
Delving  in  the  Westfarthing.  ‘All  the  top  of  your  hill  is  full  of 
tunnels  packed  with  chests  of  gold  and  silver,  and  jools,  by 
what  I’ve  heard.’ 

‘Then  you’ve  heard  more  than  I  can  speak  to,’  answered 
the  Gaffer.  ‘I  know  nothing  about  jools.  Mr.  Bilbo  is  free  with 
his  money,  and  there  seems  no  lack  of  it;  but  I  know  of  no 
tunnel-making.  I  saw  Mr.  Bilbo  when  he  came  back,  a  matter 
of  sixty  years  ago,  when  I  was  a  lad.  I’d  not  long  come 
prentice  to  old  Holman  (him  being  my  dad’s  cousin),  but  he 


A  LONG-EXPECTED  PARTY 


31 


had  me  up  at  Bag  End  helping  him  to  keep  folks  from  tram¬ 
pling  and  trapessing  all  over  the  garden  while  the  sale  was 
on.  And  in  the  middle  of  it  all  Mr.  Bilbo  comes  up  the  Hill 
with  a  pony  and  some  mighty  big  bags  and  a  couple  of  chests. 
I  don’t  doubt  they  were  mostly  full  of  treasure  he  had  picked 
up  in  foreign  parts,  where  there  be  mountains  of  gold,  they 
say;  but  there  wasn’t  enough  to  fill  tunnels.  But  my  lad  Sam 
will  know  more  about  that.  He’s  in  and  out  of  Bag  End. 
Crazy  about  stories  of  the  old  days,  he  is,  and  he  listens  to 
all  Mr.  Bilbo’s  tales.  Mr.  Bilbo  has  learned  him  his  letters  - 
meaning  no  harm,  mark  you,  and  I  hope  no  harm  will  come 
of  it. 

‘ Elves  and  Dragons!  I  says  to  him.  Cabbages  and  potatoes  are 
better  for  me  and  yon.  Don’t  go  getting  mixed  up  in  the  business 
of  your  betters,  or  you’ll  land  in  trouble  too  big  for  you,  I  says  to 
him.  And  I  might  say  it  to  others,’  he  added  with  a  look  at 
the  stranger  and  the  miller. 

But  the  Gaffer  did  not  convince  his  audience.  The  legend 
of  Bilbo’s  wealth  was  now  too  firmly  fixed  in  the  minds  of 
the  younger  generation  of  hobbits. 

‘Ah,  but  he  has  likely  enough  been  adding  to  what  he 
brought  at  first,’  argued  the  miller,  voicing  common  opinion. 
‘He’s  often  away  from  home.  And  look  at  the  outlandish  folk 
that  visit  him:  dwarves  coming  at  night,  and  that  old  wandering 
conjuror,  Gandalf,  and  all.  You  can  say  what  you  like,  Gaffer, 
but  Bag  End’s  a  queer  place,  and  its  folk  are  queerer.’ 

‘And  you  can  say  what  you  like,  about  what  you  know  no 
more  of  than  you  do  of  boating,  Mr.  Sandyman,’  retorted 
the  Gaffer,  disliking  the  miller  even  more  than  usual.  ‘If  that’s 
being  queer,  then  we  could  do  with  a  bit  more  queerness  in 
these  parts.  There’s  some  not  far  away  that  wouldn’t  offer  a 
pint  of  beer  to  a  friend,  if  they  lived  in  a  hole  with  golden 
walls.  But  they  do  things  proper  at  Bag  End.  Our  Sam  says 
that  everyone’s  going  to  be  invited  to  the  party,  and  there’s 
going  to  be  presents,  mark  you,  presents  for  all  -  this  very 
month  as  is.’ 


32 


THE  FELLOWSHIP  OF  THE  RING 


That  very  month  was  September,  and  as  fine  as  you  could 
ask.  A  day  or  two  later  a  rumour  (probably  started  by  the 
knowledgeable  Sam)  was  spread  about  that  there  were  going 
to  be  fireworks  -  fireworks,  what  is  more,  such  as  had  not 
been  seen  in  the  Shire  for  nigh  on  a  century,  not  indeed  since 
the  Old  Took  died. 

Days  passed  and  The  Day  drew  nearer.  An  odd-looking 
waggon  laden  with  odd-looking  packages  rolled  into  Hobbi- 
ton  one  evening  and  toiled  up  the  Hill  to  Bag  End.  The 
startled  hobbits  peered  out  of  lamplit  doors  to  gape  at  it.  It 
was  driven  by  outlandish  folk,  singing  strange  songs:  dwarves 
with  long  beards  and  deep  hoods.  A  few  of  them  remained 
at  Bag  End.  At  the  end  of  the  second  week  in  September  a 
cart  came  in  through  Bywater  from  the  direction  of  Brandy¬ 
wine  Bridge  in  broad  daylight.  An  old  man  was  driving  it  all 
alone.  He  wore  a  tall  pointed  blue  hat,  a  long  grey  cloak,  and 
a  silver  scarf.  He  had  a  long  white  beard  and  bushy  eyebrows 
that  stuck  out  beyond  the  brim  of  his  hat.  Small  hobbit- 
children  ran  after  the  cart  all  through  Hobbiton  and  right  up 
the  hill.  It  had  a  cargo  of  fireworks,  as  they  rightly  guessed. 
At  Bilbo’s  front  door  the  old  man  began  to  unload:  there 
were  great  bundles  of  fireworks  of  all  sorts  and  shapes,  each 
labelled  with  a  large  red  G  ^  and  the  elf-rune,  JJ>! 

That  was  Gandalf’s  mark,  of  course,  and  the  old  man 
was  Gandalf  the  Wizard,  whose  fame  in  the  Shire  was  due 
mainly  to  his  skill  with  fires,  smokes,  and  lights.  His  real 
business  was  far  more  difficult  and  dangerous,  but  the 
Shire -folk  knew  nothing  about  it.  To  them  he  was  just  one 
of  the  ‘attractions’  at  the  Party.  Hence  the  excitement  of 
the  hobbit-children.  ‘G  for  Grand!’  they  shouted,  and  the 
old  man  smiled.  They  knew  him  by  sight,  though  he  only 
appeared  in  Hobbiton  occasionally  and  never  stopped  long; 
but  neither  they  nor  any  but  the  oldest  of  their  elders  had 
seen  one  of  his  firework  displays  -  they  now  belonged  to  a 
legendary  past. 


INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM

The QUEEN, EIRTAE, SACHE and her Governor, SIO BIBBLE, stand before a
hologram of SENATOR PALPATINE, a thin, kindly man.

PALPATINE : ...How could that be true? I have assurances from the
Chancellor...his Ambassaodrs did arrive. It must be
the...get...negotiate...

The hologram of PALPATIONE sputters and fades away.

AMIDALA : Senator Palpatine?!? (turns to Panaka) What's happening?

CAPTAIN PANAKA turns to his SARGEANT

CAPT. PANAKA : Check the transmission generators...
BIBBLE : A malfunction?
CAPT. PANAKA : It could be the Federation jamming us. Your Highness.
BIBBLE : A communications disruption can only mean one thing. Invasion.
AMIDALA : Don't jump to conclusions, Governor. The Federation would not
dare go that far.
CAPT. PANAKA : The Senate would revoke their trade franchise, and they'd be
finished.
AMIDALA : We must continue to rely on negotiation.
BIBBLE : Negotiation? We've lost all communications!...and where atre the
Chancellors Ambassadors? How can we negotiate? We must prepare to defend
ourselves.
CAPT. PANAKA : This is a dangerous situation, Your Highness. Our security
volunteers will be no match against a battle-hardened Federation army.
AMIDALA : I will not condone a course of action that will lead us to war.

EXT. SPACE LANDING CRAFT - TWILIGHT (FX)

Six landing craft fly in formation toward the surface of the planet Naboo.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - SHALLOW LAKE - TWILIGHT

Three landing craft slowly descend through the cloud cover of the
perpetually gray twilight side of the planet. One by one, the Federation
warships land in the eerie swamp.
OBI-WAN's head emerges from the mud of a shallow lake. For in the
background, the activities of the invasion force can be seen in the mist.
OBI-WAN takes several deep breaths, then dissapears again under the muddy
swamp. Troop Transports (MTT's) emerge from the landing craft.

EXT. NABOO EDGE OF SWAMP / GRASS PLAINS - TWILIGHT (FX)

The droid invasion force moves out of the swamp and onto a grassy plain.
OOM-9, in his tank, looks out over the vast ARMY marching across the
rolling hills. A small hologram of RUNE and NUTE stands on the tank.

RUNE : ...and there is no trace of the Jedi. They may have gotton onto one
of your landing craft.
OOM-9 : If they are down here, sir, we'll find them. We are moving out of
the swamp and are marching on the cities. We are meeting no resistance.
NUTE : Excellent.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - TWILIGHT

QUI-GON runs through the strange landscape, glancing back to see the
monstrous troop transports, emerging from the mist. Animals begin to run
past him in a panic.
An odd, frog-like Gungan, JAR JAR INKS, squats holding a clam he has
retrieved from the murky swamp. The shell pops open. JAR JAR's greta tongue
snaps out and grabs the clam, swallowing it in one gulp.
JAR JAR looks up and sees QUI-GON and the other creatures running like the
wind toward him. One of the huge MTT's bears down on the JEDI like a
charging locomotive. JAR JAR stands transfixed, still holding the clam
shell in one hand.

JAR JAR : Oh, noooooooooo!

JAR JAR drops the shell and grabs onto QUI-GON as he passes. The JEDI is
caught by surprise.

JAR JAR : (Cont'd) Hey, help me! Help me!!
QUI-GON : Let go!

The machine is about tp crush them as QUI-GON drags JAR JAR behind him.
Just as the transport is about to hit them, QUI-GON drops, and JAR JAR goes
splat into the mud with him. The transport races overhead.
QUI-GON and JAR JAR pull themselves out of the mud. They stand watching the
war machine dissapear into the mist. JAR JAR grabs QUI-GON and hugs him.

JAR JAR : Oyi, mooie-mooie! I luv yous!

The frog-like creature kisses the JEDI.

QUI-GON : Are you brainless? You almost got us killed!
JAR JAR : I spake.
QUI-GON : The ability to speak does not make you intelligent. Now get outta
here!

QUI-GON starts to move off, and JAR JAR follows.

JAR JAR : No...no! Mesa stay...Mesa yous humble servaunt.
QUI-GON : That wont be necessary.
JAR JAR : Oh boot tis! Tis demunded byda guds. Tis a live debett, tis. Mesa
culled Jaja Binkss.

In the distance, two STAPS burst out of the mist at high speed, chasing
OBI-WAN.

QUI-GON : I have no time for this now...
JAR JAR : Say what?

The two STAPS barrell down on OBI-WAN.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Oh, nooooo! Weesa ganna....

QUI-GON throws JAR JAR into the mud.

QUI-GON : Stay down!

His head pops up.

JAR JAR : ...dieeee!

The two troops fire laser bolts at OBI-WAN. QUI-GON deflects the bolts
back, and the STAPS blow up. One-two. OBI-WAN is exhausted and tries to
catch his breath.

OBI-WAN : Sorry, Master, the water fried my weapon.

OBI-WAN pulls out his burnt laser sword handle. QUI-GON inspects it, as JAR
JAR pulls himself out of the mud.

QUI-GON : You forgot to turn your power off again, didn't you?

OBI-WAN nods sheeplishly.

QUI-GON : (cont'd) It won't take long to recharge, but this is a lesson I
hope you've learned, my young Padawan.
OBI-WAN : Yes, Master.
JAR JAR : Yousa sav-ed my again, hey?
OBI-WAN : What's this?
QUI-GON : A local. Let's go, before more of those droids show up.
JAR JAR : Mure? Mure did you spake??!?

OBI-WAN and QUI-GON start to run. JAR JAR tries to keep up.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Ex-squeeze me, but da moto grande safe place would be
Otoh Gunga. Tis where I grew up...Tis safe city.

They all stop.

QUI-GON : A city! (JAR JAR nods his head) Can you take us there?
JAR JAR : Ahhh, will...on second taut...no, not willy.
QUI-GON : No??!
JAR JAR : Iss embarrissing, boot... My afrai my've bean banished. My
forgoten der Bosses would do terrible tings to my. Terrible tings if my
goen back dare.

A PULSATING SOUND is heard in the distance.

QUI-GON : You hear that?

JAR JAR shakes his head yes.

QUI-GON : (cont'd) That's the sound of a thousand terrible things heading
this way...
OBI-WAN : When they find us, they will crush us, grind us into little
pieces, then blast us into oblivion!
JAR JAR : Oh! Yousa point is well seen. Dis way! Hurry!

JAR JAR turns and runs into the swamp.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP LAKE - TWILIGHT

QUI-GON, OBI-WAN and JAR JAR run into a murky lake and stop as JAR JAR
tries to catch his breath. The TRANSPORTS ARE HEARD in the distance.

QUI-GON : Much farther?
JAR JAR : Wesa goen underwater, okeyday?

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN pull out small capsule from their utility belts that
turn into breathing masks.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) My warning yous. Gungans no liken outlaunders. Don't
expict a wern welcome.
OBI-WAN : Don't worry, this has not been our day for warm welcomes.

JAR JAR jumps, does a double somersault with a twist, and dives into the
water.
Breath masks on, QUI-GON and OBI-WAN wade in after him.

EXT. NABOO LAKE - UNDERWATER

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN swim behind JAR JAR, who is very much at home in the
water. Down they swim into murky depths. In the distance the glow of Otoh
Gunga, an underwater city made up of large bubbles, becomes more distinct.
They approach the strange, art nouveau habitat. JAR JAR swims magically
through one of the bubble membranes, which seals behind him. OBI-WAN and
QUI-GON follow.

INT. OTOH GUNGA - CITY SQUARE

GUNGANS in the square scatter when they see the strange JEDI. Four GUARDS
armed with long electro-poles ride two-legged KAADUS into the square. The
GUARDS, led by CAPTAIN TARPALS, point their lethal poles at the dripping
trio.

JAR JAR : Heyo-dalee, Cap'n Tarpals, Mesa back!
CAPT. TARPALS : Noah gain, Jar Jar. Yousa goen tada Bosses. Yousa in big
dudu this time.

CAPT. TARPALS gives JAR JAR a slight zap with his power pole. JAR JAR jumps
and moves off, followed by the two JEDI.

JAR JAR : How wude.

INT. OTOH GUNGA - HIGH TOWER BOARD ROOM

The Bosses' Board Room has bubble walls, with small lighted fish swimming
around outside like moving stars. A long circular judge's bench filled with
GUNGAN OFFICIALS dominates the room. OBI-WAN and QUI-GON stand facing BOSS
NASS, who sits on a bench higher than the others.

BOSS NASS : Yousa cannot bees hair. Dis army of mackineeks up dare tis new
weesong!
QUI-GON : That droid army is about to attack the Naboo. We must warn them.
BOSS NASS : Wesa no like da Naboo! Un dey no like uss-ens. Da Naboo tink
day so smarty den us-ens. Day tink day brains so big.
OBI-WAN : After those droids take control of the surface, they will come
here and take control of you.
BOSS NASS : No, mesa no tink so. Mesa scant talkie witda Naboo, and no
nutten talkie it outlaunders. Dos mackineeks no comen here! Dey not know of
uss-en.
OBI-WAN : You and the Naboo form a symbiont circle. What happens to noe of
you will affect the other. You must understand this.
BOSS NASS : Wesa wish no nutten in yousa tings, outlaunder, and wesa no
care-n about da Naboo.
QUI-GON : (waves his hand) Then speed us on our way.
BOSS NASS : Wesa gonna speed yousaway.
QUI-GON : We need a transport.
BOSS NASS : Wesa give yousa una bongo. Da speedest way tooda Naboo tis goen
through da core. Now go.
QUI-GON : Thank you for your help. We go in peace.

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN turn to leave.

OBI-WAN : Master, whats a bongo?
QUI-GON : A transport, I hope.

The JEDI notice JAR JAR in chains to one side, waiting to hear his verdict.
QUI-GON stops. JAR JAR gives him a forlorn look.

JAR JAR : Daza setten yous up. Goen through da planet core is bad bombin!!
QUI-GON : Thank you, my friend.
JAR JAR : Ahhh...any hep hair would be hot.

JAR JAR's soulful look is counterpointed by a sheepish grin.

OBI-WAN : We are short of time, Master.
QUI-GON : We'll need a navigator to get us through the planet's core. This
Gungan my be of help.

QUI-GON walks bact to BOSS NASS.

QUI-GON : (cont'd) What is to become of Jar Jar Binks here?
BOSS NASS : Binkss brokeen the nocombackie law. Hisen to be pune-ished.
QUI-GON : He has been a great help to us. I hope the punishment will not be
too severe.
BOSS NASS : Pounded unto death.
JAR JAR : (grimacing) Oooooh...Ouch!

OBI-WAN looks concerned. QUI-GON is thinking.

QUI-GON : We need a navigator to get us through the planet's core. I have
saved Jar Jar Binks' life. He owes me what you call a "life.debt."
BOSS NASS : Binks. Yousa havena liveplay with thisen hisen?

JAR JAR nods and joins the JEDI. QUI-GON waves his hand.

QUI-GON : Your gods demand that his life belongs to me now.
BOSS NASS : Hisen live tis yos, outlauder. Begone wit him.
JAR JAR : Count mesa outta dis! Better dead here, den deader in da
core...Yee guds, whata mesa sayin?!

EXT. NABOO CITY - UNDERWATER - SUB (FX)

A strange little submarine propels itself away from the Otoh Gunga, leaving
the glow of the settlement in the distance.

INT. SUB COCKPIT - UNDERWATER

OBI-WAN in the co-pilots seat, JAR JAR guides the craft.

JAR JAR : Dis is nusen.
OBI-WAN : Master, why do you keep dragging these pathetic life forms along
with us?...Here, take over.
JAR JAR : Hey, ho? Where wesa goen??
QUI-GON : You're the navigator.
JAR JAR : Yo dreamen mesa hopen...,br QUI-GON : Just relax, the Force will
guide us...
JAR JAR : Ooooh, maxibig..."da Force"...Wellen, dat smells stinkowiff.

JAR JAR veers the craft to the left and turns the lights on. The coral
vistas are grand, fantastic, and wonderous.

OBI-WAN : Why were you banished, Jar Jar?
JAR JAR : Tis a long tale, buta small part wawdabe
mesa...ooooh...aaaa.....clumsy.
OBI-WAN : They banished you because you're clumsy?

As the little sub glides into the planet core, a large dark shape begins to
follow.

JAR JAR : Mesa cause-ed mabee one or duey lettal bitty axadentes...yud-say
boom da gasser, un crash Der Bosses heyblibber...den banished.

Suddenly there is a loud CRASH, and the little craft lurches to one side.
QUI-GON looks around and sees a huge, lumimnous OPEE SEA KILLER has hooked
them with its long gooey tongue.

QUI-GON : Full speed ahead.

Instead of full ahead, JAR JAR jams the controls into reverse. The sub
flies into the mouth of the creature.

JAR JAR : Oooops.
OBI-WAN : Give me the controls.

OBI-WAN takes over the controls and the OPEE SEA KILLER instantly releases
the sub from its mouth.

JAR JAR : Wesa free!

As the sub zooms away they see a larger set of jaws, munching on the
hapless KILLER. The jaws belong to the incredible SANDO AQUA MONSTER. The
lights on the tiny sub begin to flicker as they cruise deeper into the
gloom.

QUI-GON : There's always a bigger fish.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

NUTE and RUNE stand before a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

NUTE : The invasion is on schedule, My Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Good. I have the Senate bogged down in procedures. By the
time this incident comes up for a vote, they will have no choice but to
accept your control of the system.
NUTE : The Queen has great faith the Senate will side with her.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Queen Amidala is yound and naive. You will find controlling
her will not be difficult. You have done well, Viceroy.
NUTE : Thank you, My Lord.

DARTH SIDIOUS fades away.

RUNE : You didn't tell him about the missing Jedi?
NUTE : No need to report that to him, until we have something to report.

INT. SUB COCKPIT - UNDERWATER

Sparks are flying, and water is leaking into the cabin. The sound of the
power drive drops.

OBI-WAN : .....we're losing power.


EXT MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - PORCH - DAY

QUI-GON puts the comlink away as SHMI comes onto the porch

PADME, ANAKIN, JAR JAR, and ARTOO work on the engines of the Podracer in
the courtyard below.

QUI-GON : You should be proud of your son. He gives without any thought of
reward.
SHMI : He knows nothing of greed. He has...
QUI-GON : He has special powers.
SHMI : Yes...
QUI-GON : He can see things before they happen. That's why he appears to
have such quick reflexes. It is a Jedi trait.
SHMI : He deserves better than a slave's life.
QUI-GON : The Force is unusally strong with him, that much is clear. Who
was his father?
SHMI : There was no father, that I know of...I carried him, I gave him
birth...I can't explain what happened. Can you help him?
QUI-GON : I'm afraid not. Had he been born in the Republic, we would have
identified him early, and he would have become Jedi, no doubt...he has the
way. But it's too late for him now, he's too old.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - BACK YARD - DAY

KITSTER (a young boy about Anakin's age), SEEK (a boy of ten), AMEE (a girl
of six), and WALD (a Greedo Type, six years old) join ANAKIN, JAR JAR,
ARTOO, and PADME securing some wiring.

ANAKIN : Padme and Jar Jar, this is my friend Kitster, and seek, Amee, and
Wald.

All whistle, hoot, and speak a greeting.

KITSTER : Wow, a real Astro Droid...how'd you get so lucky?
ANAKIN : This isn't the half of it. I'm entered in the Boonta Race
tomorrow!
KITSTER : What? With this??
WALD : (subtitled) Annie, Jesko na joka. 9You are such a joke, Annie.
AMEE : You've been working on that thing for years. It's never going to
run.
SEEK : Come on, let's go play ball. Keep it up, Annie, and you're gonna be





… So whassup, man?
Coolin', man
Chillin' chilin'? Yo, you know I had to call, you know why right?
Why?
Because, yo, I never ever call and ask you to play somethin', right?
Yeah
You know what I wanna hear, right?
Whatchu wanna hear?
I wanna hear that Wu-Tang joint
Wu-Tang again?
Ah, yeah, again and again
… Wu-Tang Clan comin' at ya
Watch your step kid
Watch your step kid (protect ya neck kid)
… Watch your step kid (so set it off)
Watch your step kid
Watch your step kid
… Watch your step kid (de Inspector Deck)
I smoke on the mic like "Smokin' Joe" Frazier
The hell raiser, raisin' hell with the flavor
Terrorize the jam like troops in Pakistan
Swingin' through your town like your neighborhood Spiderman
So uhh, tick-tock and keep tickin'
While I get ya flippin' off the shit I'm kickin'
The Lone Ranger, code red, danger
Deep in the dark with the art to rip charts apart
… The vandal, too hot to handle
Ya battle, you're sayin' "Goodbye" like Tevin Campbell
Roughneck, Inspector Deck's on the set
… The Rebel, I make more noise than heavy metal
The way I make the crowd go wild, sit back, relax, won't smile
Rae got it goin on pal, call me the rap assassinator
Rhymes rugged and built like Schwarzenegger
And I'ma get mad deep like a threat
Blow up your project, then take all your assets
'Cause I came to shake the frame in half
With the thoughts that bomb, shit like math
… So if you wanna try to flip, go flip on the next man
'Cause I grab the clip and hit you with 16 shots and more I got
… Goin' to war with the meltin' pot, akh
It's the Method Man, for short Mr. Meth
Movin' on your left, aah
And set it off, get it off, let it off like a gat
I wanna break full, cock me back
Small change, they puttin' shame in the game
I take aim and blow that nigga out the frame
And like Fame, my style'll live forever
Niggaz crossin' over, but they don't know no better
But I do, true, can I get a "sue"
'Nough respect due to the one-six-ooh
I mean ohh, yo check out the flow

nomination of a weight. “When wheat is at twelve shillings the
quarter,” says an ancient statute of Henry III. “then wastel bread
of a farthing shall weigh eleven shillings and fourpence”. The proportion, however, between the shilling, and either the penny on
the one hand, or the pound on the other, seems not to have been
so constant and uniform as that between the penny and the pound.
During the first race of the kings of France, the French sou or
shilling appears upon different occasions to have contained five,
twelve, twenty, and forty pennies. Among the ancient Saxons, a
shilling appears at one time to have contained only five pennies,
and it is not improbable that it may have been as variable among
them as among their neighbours, the ancient Franks. From the
time of Charlemagne among the French, and from that of William the Conqueror among the English, the proportion between
the pound, the shilling, and the penny, seems to have been uniformly the same as at present, though the value of each has been
very different; for in every country of the world, I believe, the
avarice and injustice of princes and sovereign states, abusing the
confidence of their subjects, have by degrees diminished the real
quantity of metal, which had been originally contained in their
coins. The Roman as, in the latter ages of the republic, was reduced to the twenty-fourth part of its original value, and, instead
of weighing a pound, came to weigh only half an ounce. The English pound and penny contain at present about a third only; the
Scots pound and penny about a thirty-sixth; and the French pound
and penny about a sixty-sixth part of their original value. By means
of those operations, the princes and sovereign states which performed them were enabled, in appearance, to pay their debts and
fulfil their engagements with a smaller quantity of silver than would
otherwise have been requisite. It was indeed in appearance only;
for their creditors were really defrauded of a part of what was due
to them. All other debtors in the state were allowed the same privilege, and might pay with the same nominal sum of the new and
debased coin whatever they had borrowed in the old. Such operations, therefore, have always proved favourable to the debtor, and
ruinous to the creditor, and have sometimes produced a greater
and more universal revolution in the fortunes of private persons,
than could have been occasioned by a very great public calamity.
It is in this manner that money has become, in all civilized nations, the universal instrument of commerce, by the intervention
of which goods of all kinds are bought and sold, or exchanged for
one another.
What are the rules which men naturally observe, in exchanging
them either for money, or for one another, I shall now proceed to
30
The Wealth of Nations
examine. These rules determine what may be called the relative or
exchangeable value of goods.
The word VALUE, it is to be observed, has two different meanings, and sometimes expresses the utility of some particular object, and sometimes the power of purchasing other goods which
the possession of that object conveys. The one may be called ‘value
in use;’ the other, ‘value in exchange.’ The things which have the
greatest value in use have frequently little or no value in exchange;
and, on the contrary, those which have the greatest value in exchange have frequently little or no value in use. Nothing is more
useful than water; but it will purchase scarce any thing; scarce any
thing can be had in exchange for it. A diamond, on the contrary,
has scarce any value in use; but a very great quantity of other
goods may frequently be had in exchange for it.
In order to investigate the principles which regulate the exchangeable value of commodities, I shall endeavour to shew,
First, what is the real measure of this exchangeable value; or
wherein consists the real price of all commodities.
Secondly, what are the different parts of which this real price is
composed or made up.
And, lastly, what are the different circumstances which sometimes raise some or all of these different parts of price above, and
sometimes sink them below, their natural or ordinary rate; or, what
are the causes which sometimes hinder the market price, that is,
the actual price of commodities, from coinciding exactly with what
may be called their natural price.
I shall endeavour to explain, as fully and distinctly as I can,
those three subjects in the three following chapters, for which I



L + counter-ratio—you couldn't even handle Joe Biden in a
parking lot, let alone fend off space marines wielding giant
scythes. Your Spanish teacher trapped you in a hydroelectric dam,
proving once and for all you're not even real enough
to find Waluigi in Splatoon 3. ₣orks. You mistook a
toy gun in a ziplock bag for a legitimate threat,
got doxxed mid-"hey you" trend, and Mike Hawk won't even
confirm if your foot qualifies for bottom surgery. Meanwhile, Ben
Shapiro lies buried beneath spaghetti, whispering secret names to a
malfunctioning RHCP cam.

You failed geometry by not realizing the right circle was
a single pixel smaller, and when leaning over a railing,
James Sunderland romantically betrayed you. Your monstrous paranoia tragically culminated
in killing your own dog, not realizing you were the
true monster. Cheating on a furry with a pet lizard—oddly
based, yet insufficient when facing Senator Armstrong's straightforward "fuck you."
Your criminal escapades earned you the moniker "Saltybals," having hurled
mac and cheese at Queen from Deltarune. Alas, your genomes
are worthless.

You orchestrated the Garfield factory spill, distracting authorities with
sock-drawer arson, then blandly assured everyone "there's nothing happening. Out
of the ordinary, I mean." Losing your morals over SFW
and NSFW Sans Undertale, you joined the gay squad with
Tramus, Trans Octillery, nonbinary Waluigi, and Daisy—all vibing to SpongeBob
status music. Yet, Solid Snake remains fictional, existing only in
your imagined dark hallways, while your taste buds failed to
detect strawberry in gaslighter green apple candy.

Minecraft Ahoy jumpscared you so hard that a capitalist pig
taxed your pudding, denying you entry to double heaven. Ignoring
MatPat's conspiracy theories resulted in your involvement with Dream SMP's
Minecraft ban, relegating you to playing Undertale on Wii without
ever experiencing a Lego City abortion. Your faith wavered at
rotating flower pots, your patience thinned by rat emoji kids,
and you missed culinary enlightenment by never eating "King's Hand."

Despite championing gay rights Luigi, ignorance left you unaware of
big jug little jug, confusing Heisenberg's quest for your elusive
kilo. Allergic yet persistent, you held your friend's cat, triggering
SpongeBob's cartoon-induced existential crisis. Voting Scout into presidential office inadvertently
plunged society into dystopia, while Obama becoming McDonald's CEO seemed
reasonable to you. Age being "just a number" referred only
to chopped cheese, a nuance lost on you as you
fumbled with an outdated iKnife.

Nidoking's bisexual symbolism upset you; Tutti Frutti failed to impress
your palate. "Walter Salter," they mockingly called you, the riddler
cat who couldn't spell. Your negligence allowed SpongeBob to consume
autism unchecked, and you misled Jerma about leather belts' radiation
immunity. Zombie apocalypse survival via Mario Kart ragequit failed spectacularly.
Disney banned your Multiversus corndog moveset dreams, shaming you for
picking flowers in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon's first area.

Biden versus Moses Tetris matches occupied your thoughts, prompting you
to fabricate Link and orangutan embraces, ruining lives over pants.
Beerless gaming marked your failures, piracy extended bizarrely to your
bowl cut, and imaginary friend Nazura vanished, replaced by Mr.
Krabs welcoming you to the ligma dimension. Ronald McDonald's threats
felt real, your WD-41 triggering a Joe Biden snipe, converting
you into Pfizer's worker drone—your Smash Bros NyQuil and DayQuil
DLC ideas universally rejected.

Homie Barnstable's pursuit outmatched your AR-wielding French hot air
balloon defense. Inkling forklift operations remained uncertified, SpongeBob imagery weaponized
in your doxxing by FNAF artists. Biological misconceptions abounded—dogs don't
birth guns. Your ill-fated attack on animal-abusing YouTubers failed,
leaving canine graves defiled by your own dog. Bibleborne 2’s
God boss proved unbeatable, cave wall traversal eluded you, and
ignorance about Soro's burger supremacy abounded.

Rainbow Wurmple captures brought Luigi unlocks, provoking divine ragequits from
Jesus, hastening Ragnarok. Lego Hero Factory's supposed satanism repulsed you;
Jet Set Radio baffled Walter White. Password mishaps prompted wellness
checks from your phone, uncooked chicken failed to bestow royal
status, and sin points accumulated alarmingly. Antarctica exile followed England's
disappearance, orange passing etiquette escaped you, and Queen's death splatfest
decisions haunted your tweets.

Dihorsed parents ignored God's patch notes, leaving Asgore grocery store
chases frequent. Drift queen dislike, pasta earthquakes, and Sonic Peach
Rings GFuel enlistment defined your existence. Hamster biblical omissions hurt
deeply, WestTarget shopping shamed publicly. Lego Breaking Bad recreations proved
fatal, Fronald Bump endorsements embarrassing, cockroach status sealed, furniture inexplicably
lampified. Forgotten KitKats marred ancestral visits, Stretch Armstrong transformations followed
triangular rock encounters, your microscope emoji mocked eternally.

Heatran's emergence signaled basebullet losses, DJ existential dread escalated, Joe
Biden's American patches endless. Prius advocacy combated diesel suffocation, incorrect
Japan downloads brainwashed honey-consumers, and maple syrup disdain coincided grimly
with Russian nukes. Metakarma Jimbomaxxing absences signaled jolliness deficits, neglected
spoon responsibilities forfeited Norwegian rights, Ralsei mistaken for Idaho flags,
groomers overtaken by broomers.

Herobrine lava mori, Snoblerone-induced thumb-loss nightmares transformed you into gobbledy
goo-pium-fueled agents denying TOTK greatness. Lesbian pizza debunked, human flesh absent
from functions, insulation eating inadequacies prevalent, Taylor D. Swiftie's anime
lore canonized. Thus, your journey of chaotic absurdity ends—not with
dignity, but eternal, meme-laden ridicule.

An' it's your bad luck you grew up in a family o' the biggest Muggles I ever laid eyes on." 

"We swore when we took him in we'd put a stop to that rubbish," said Uncle Vernon, "swore we'd stamp it out of him! Wizard indeed!" 

"You knew?" said Harry. "You knew I'm a -- a wizard?" 

"Knew!" shrieked Aunt Petunia suddenly. "Knew! Of course we knew! How could you not be, my dratted sister being what she was? Oh, she got a letter just like that and disappeared off to that-that school-and came home every vacation with her pockets full of frog spawn, turning teacups into rats. I was the only one who saw her for what she was -- a freak! But for my mother and father, oh no, it was Lily this and Lily that, they were proud of having a witch in the family!" 

She stopped to draw a deep breath and then went ranting on. It seemed she had been wanting to say all this for years. 

"Then she met that Potter at school and they left and got married and had you, and of course I knew you'd be just the same, just as strange, just as -- as -- abnormal -- and then, if you please, she went and got herself blown up and we got landed with you!" 

Harry had gone very white. As soon as he found his voice he said, "Blown up? You told me they died in a car crash!" 

"CAR CRASH!" roared Hagrid, jumping up so angrily that the Dursleys scuttled back to their corner. "How could a car crash kill Lily an' James Potter? It's an outrage! A scandal! Harry Potter not knowin' his own story when every kid in our world knows his name!" "But why? What happened?" Harry asked urgently. 

The anger faded from Hagrid's face. He looked suddenly anxious. 

"I never expected this," he said, in a low, worried voice. "I had no idea, when Dumbledore told me there might be trouble gettin' hold of yeh, how much yeh didn't know. Ah, Harry, I don' know if I'm the right person ter tell yeh -- but someone 3 s gotta -- yeh can't go off ter Hogwarts not knowin'." 

He threw a dirty look at the Dursleys. 

"Well, it's best yeh know as much as I can tell yeh -- mind, I can't tell yeh everythin', it's a great myst'ry, parts of it...." 

He sat down, stared into the fire for a few seconds, and then said, "It begins, I suppose, with -- with a person called -- but it's incredible yeh don't know his name, everyone in our world knows --" 

"Who? “ 

"Well -- I don' like sayin' the name if I can help it. No one does." 

"Why not?" 

"Gulpin' gargoyles, Harry, people are still scared. Blimey, this is difficult. See, there was this wizard who went... bad. As bad as you could go. Worse. Worse than worse. His name was..." 

Hagrid gulped, but no words came out. 

"Could you write it down?" Harry suggested. 

"Nah -can't spell it. All right -- Voldemort. " Hagrid shuddered. "Don' make me say it again. Anyway, this -- this wizard, about twenty years ago now, started lookin' fer followers. Got 'em, too -- some were afraid, some just wanted a bit o' his power, 'cause he was gettin' himself power, all right. Dark days, Harry. Didn't know who ter trust, didn't dare get friendly with strange wizards or witches... terrible things happened. He was takin' over. 'Course, some stood up to him -- an' he killed 'em. Horribly. One o' the only safe places left was Hogwarts. Reckon Dumbledore's the only one You-Know-Who was afraid of. 

Didn't dare try takin' the school, not jus' then, anyway. 

"Now, yer mum an' dad were as good a witch an' wizard as I ever knew. 

Head boy an' girl at Hogwarts in their day! Suppose the myst'ry is why You-Know-Who never tried to get 'em on his side before... probably knew they were too close ter Dumbledore ter want anythin' ter do with the Dark Side. 

"Maybe he thought he could persuade 'em... maybe he just wanted 'em outta the way. All anyone knows is, he turned up in the village where you was all living, on Halloween ten years ago. You was just a year old. 

He came ter yer house an' -- an' --" 

Hagrid suddenly pulled out a very dirty, spotted handkerchief and blew his nose with a sound like a foghorn. 

"Sorry," he said. "But it's that sad -- knew yer mum an' dad, an' nicer people yeh couldn't find -- anyway..." 

"You-Know-Who killed 'em. An' then -- an' this is the real myst'ry of the thing -- he tried to kill you, too. Wanted ter make a clean job of it, I suppose, or maybe he just liked killin' by then. But he couldn't do it. Never wondered how you got that mark on yer forehead? That was no ordinary cut. That's what yeh get when a Powerful, evil curse touches yeh -- took care of yer mum an' dad an' yer house, even -- but it didn't work on you, an' that's why yer famous, Harry. No one ever lived after he decided ter kill 'em, no one except you, an' he'd killed some o' the best witches an' wizards of the age -- the McKinnons, the Bones, the Prewetts -- an' you was only a baby, an' you lived." 

Something very painful was going on in Harry's mind. As Hagrid's story came to a close, he saw again the blinding flash of green light, more clearly than he had ever remembered it before -- and he remembered something else, for the first time in his life: a high, cold, cruel laugh. 

Hagrid was watching him sadly. 

"Took yeh from the ruined house myself, on Dumbledore's orders. Brought yeh ter this lot..." 

"Load of old tosh," said Uncle Vernon. Harry jumped; he had almost forgotten that the Dursleys were there. Uncle Vernon certainly seemed to have got back his courage. He was glaring at Hagrid and his fists were clenched. 

"Now, you listen here, boy," he snarled, "I accept there's something strange about you, probably nothing a good beating wouldn't have cured -- and as for all this about your parents, well, they were weirdos, no denying it, and the world's better off without them in my opinion -- asked for all they got, getting mixed up with these wizarding types -- just what I expected, always knew they'd come to a sticky end --" 

But at that moment, Hagrid leapt from the sofa and drew a battered pink umbrella from inside his coat. Pointing this at Uncle Vernon like a sword, he said, "I'm warning you, Dursley -I'm warning you -- one more word... “ 

In danger of being speared on the end of an umbrella by a bearded giant, Uncle Vernon's courage failed again; he flattened himself against the wall and fell silent. 

"That's better," said Hagrid, breathing heavily and sitting back down on the sofa, which this time sagged right down to the floor. 

Harry, meanwhile, still had questions to ask, hundreds of them. 

"But what happened to Vol--, sorry -- I mean, You-Know-Who?" 

"Good question, Harry. Disappeared. Vanished. Same night he tried ter kill you. Makes yeh even more famous. That's the biggest myst'ry, see... 

he was gettin' more an' more powerful -- why'd he go? "Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough human left in him to die. Some say he's still out there, bidin' his time, like, but I don' believe it. People who was on his side came back ter ours. Some of 'em came outta kinda trances. Don~ reckon they could've done if he was comin' back. 

"Most of us reckon he's still out there somewhere but lost his powers. 

Too weak to carry on. 'Cause somethin' about you finished him, Harry. 

There was somethin' goin' on that night he hadn't counted on -- I dunno what it was, no one does -- but somethin' about you stumped him, all right." 

Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect blazing in his eyes, but Harry, instead of feeling pleased and proud, felt quite sure there had been a horrible mistake. A wizard? Him? How could he possibly be? He'd spent his life being clouted by Dudley, and bullied by Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon; if he was really a wizard, why hadn't they been turned into warty toads every time they'd tried to lock him in his cupboard? If he'd once defeated the greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Dudley had always been able to kick him around like a football? "Hagrid," he said quietly, "I think you must have made a mistake. I don't think I can be a wizard." 

To his surprise, Hagrid chuckled. 

"Not a wizard, eh? Never made things happen when you was scared or angry?" 

Harry looked into the fire. Now he came to think about it... every odd thing that had ever made his aunt and uncle furious with him had happened when he, Harry, had been upset or angry... chased by Dudley's gang, he had somehow found himself out of their reach... dreading going to school with that ridiculous haircut, he'd managed to make it grow back... and the very last time Dudley had hit him, hadn't he got his revenge, without even realizing he was doing it? Hadn't he set a boa constrictor on him? Harry looked back at Hagrid, smiling, and saw that Hagrid was positively beaming at him. 

"See?" said Hagrid. "Harry Potter, not a wizard -- you wait, you'll be right famous at Hogwarts." 

But Uncle Vernon wasn't going to give in without a fight. 

"Haven't I told you he's not going?" he hissed. "He's going to Stonewall High and he'll be grateful for it. I've read those letters and he needs all sorts of rubbish -- spell books and wands and --" 

"If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won't stop him," growled Hagrid. "Stop Lily an' James Potter' s son goin' ter Hogwarts! Yer mad. 

His name's been down ever since he was born. He's off ter the finest school of witchcraft and wizardry in the world. Seven years there and he won't know himself. He'll be with youngsters of his own sort, fer a change, an' he'll be under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had Albus Dumbled--" 

"I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL To TEACH HIM MAGIC TRICKS!" 

yelled Uncle Vernon. 

But he had finally gone too far. Hagrid seized his umbrella and whirled it over his head, "NEVER," he thundered, "- INSULT- ALBUS- DUMBLEDOREIN- FRONT- OF- ME!" 

He brought the umbrella swishing down through the air to point at Dudley -- there was a flash of violet light, a sound like a firecracker, a sharp squeal, and the next second, Dudley was dancing on the spot with his hands clasped over his fat bottom, howling in pain. When he turned his back on them, Harry saw a curly pig's tail poking through a hole in his trousers. 

Uncle Vernon roared. Pulling Aunt Petunia and Dudley into the other room, he cast one last terrified look at Hagrid and slammed the door behind them. 

Hagrid looked down at his umbrella and stroked his beard. 

"Shouldn'ta lost me temper," he said ruefully, "but it didn't work anyway. Meant ter turn him into a pig, but I suppose he was so much like a pig anyway there wasn't much left ter do." 

He cast a sideways look at Harry under his bushy eyebrows. 

"Be grateful if yeh didn't mention that ter anyone at Hogwarts," he said. "I'm -- er -- not supposed ter do magic, strictly speakin'. I was allowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an' get yer letters to yeh an' stuff -- one o' the reasons I was so keen ter take on the job "Why aren't you supposed to do magic?" asked Harry. 

"Oh, well -- I was at Hogwarts meself but I -- er -- got expelled, ter tell yeh the truth. In me third year. They snapped me wand in half an' everything. But Dumbledore let me stay on as gamekeeper. Great man, Dumbledore." "Why were you expelled?" 

"It's gettin' late and we've got lots ter do tomorrow," said Hagrid loudly. "Gotta get up ter town, get all yer books an' that." 

He took off his thick black coat and threw it to Harry. 

"You can kip under that," he said. "Don' mind if it wriggles a bit, I think I still got a couple o' dormice in one o' the pockets." 

CHAPTER FIVE 

DIAGON ALLEY 

Harry woke early the next morning. Although he could tell it was daylight, he kept his eyes shut tight. 

"It was a dream, he told himself firmly. "I dreamed a giant called Hagrid came to tell me I was going to a school for wizards. When I open my eyes I'll be at home in my cupboard." 

There was suddenly a loud tapping noise. 

And there's Aunt Petunia knocking on the door, Harry thought, his heart sinking. But he still didn't open his eyes. It had been such a good dream. 

Tap. Tap. Tap. 

"All right," Harry mumbled, "I'm getting up." 

He sat up and Hagrid's heavy coat fell off him. The hut was full of sunlight, the storm was over, Hagrid himself was asleep on the collapsed sofa, and there was an owl rapping its claw on the window, a newspaper held in its beak. 

Harry scrambled to his feet, so happy he felt as though a large balloon was swelling inside him. He went straight to the window and jerked it open. The owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of Hagrid, who didn't wake up. The owl then fluttered onto the floor and began to attack Hagrid's coat. 

"Don't do that." 

Harry tried to wave the owl out of the way, but it snapped its beak fiercely at him and carried on savaging the coat. 

"Hagrid!" said Harry loudly. "There's an owl "Pay him," Hagrid grunted into the sofa. 

"What?" 

"He wants payin' fer deliverin' the paper. Look in the pockets." 

Hagrid's coat seemed to be made of nothing but pockets -- bunches of keys, slug pellets, balls of string, peppermint humbugs, teabags... 

finally, Harry pulled out a handful of strange-looking coins. 

"Give him five Knuts," said Hagrid sleepily. 

"Knuts?" 

"The little bronze ones." 

Harry counted out five little bronze coins, and the owl held out his leg so Harry could put the money into a small leather pouch tied to it. Then he flew off through the open window. 

Hagrid yawned loudly, sat up, and stretched. 

"Best be Off, Harry, lots ter do today, gotta get up ter London an' buy all yer stuff fer school." 

Harry was turning over the wizard coins and looking at them. He had just thought of something that made him feel as though the happy balloon inside him had got a puncture. 

"Um -- Hagrid?" 

"Mm?" said Hagrid, who was pulling on his huge boots. 

"I haven't got any money -- and you heard Uncle Vernon last night ... he won't pay for me to go and learn magic." 

"Don't worry about that," said Hagrid, standing up and scratching his head. "D'yeh think yer parents didn't leave yeh anything?" 

"But if their house was destroyed --" 

"They didn' keep their gold in the house, boy! Nah, first stop fer us is Gringotts. Wizards' bank. Have a sausage, they're not bad cold -- an' I wouldn' say no teh a bit o' yer birthday cake, neither." 

"Wizards have banks?" 

"Just the one. Gringotts. Run by goblins." 

Harry dropped the bit of sausage he was holding. 

"Goblins?" 

"Yeah -- so yeh'd be mad ter try an' rob it, I'll tell yeh that. Never mess with goblins, Harry. Gringotts is the safest place in the world fer anything yeh want ter keep safe -- 'cept maybe Hogwarts. As a matter o' fact, I gotta visit Gringotts anyway. Fer Dumbledore. Hogwarts business." Hagrid drew himself up proudly. "He usually gets me ter do important stuff fer him. Fetchin' you gettin' things from Gringotts -- knows he can trust me, see. 

"Got everythin'? Come on, then." 

Harry followed Hagrid out onto the rock. The sky was quite clear now and the sea gleamed in the sunlight. The boat Uncle Vernon had hired was still there, with a lot of water in the bottom after the storm. 

"How did you get here?" Harry asked, looking around for another boat. 

"Flew," said Hagrid. 

"Flew?" 

"Yeah -- but we'll go back in this. Not s'pposed ter use magic now I've got yeh." 

They settled down in the boat, Harry still staring at Hagrid, trying to imagine him flying. 

"Seems a shame ter row, though," said Hagrid, giving Harry another of his sideways looks. "If I was ter -- er -- speed things up a bit, would yeh mind not mentionin' it at Hogwarts?" 

"Of course not," said Harry, eager to see more magic. Hagrid pulled out the pink umbrella again, tapped it twice on the side of the boat, and they sped off toward land. 

"Why would you be mad to try and rob Gringotts?" Harry asked. 

"Spells -- enchantments," said Hagrid, unfolding his newspaper as he spoke. "They say there's dragons guardin' the highsecurity vaults. And then yeh gotta find yer way -- Gringotts is hundreds of miles under London, see. Deep under the Underground. Yeh'd die of hunger tryin' ter get out, even if yeh did manage ter get yer hands on summat." 

Harry sat and thought about this while Hagrid read his newspaper, the Daily Prophet. Harry had learned from Uncle Vernon that people liked to be left alone while they did this, but it was very difficult, he'd never had so many questions in his life. 

"Ministry o' Magic messin' things up as usual," Hagrid muttered, turning the page. 

"There's a Ministry of Magic?" Harry asked, before he could stop himself. 

"'Course," said Hagrid. "They wanted Dumbledore fer Minister, 0 ' course, but he'd never leave Hogwarts, so old Cornelius Fudge got the job. Bungler if ever there was one. So he pelts Dumbledore with owls every morning, askin' fer advice." 

"But what does a Ministry of Magic do?" 

"Well, their main job is to keep it from the Muggles that there's still witches an' wizards up an' down the country." 

"Why?" 

"Why? Blimey, Harry, everyone'd be wantin' magic solutions to their problems. Nah, we're best left alone." 

At this moment the boat bumped gently into the harbor wall. Hagrid folded up his newspaper, and they clambered up the stone steps onto the street. 

Passersby stared a lot at Hagrid as they walked through the little town to the station. Harry couldn't blame them. Not only was Hagrid twice as tall as anyone else, he kept pointing at perfectly ordinary things like parking meters and saying loudly, "See that, Harry? Things these Muggles dream up, eh?" 

"Hagrid," said Harry, panting a bit as he ran to keep up, "did you say there are dragons at Gringotts?" 

"Well, so they say," said Hagrid. "Crikey, I'd like a dragon." 

"You'd like one?" 

"Wanted one ever since I was a kid -- here we go." 

They had reached the station. There was a train to London in five minutes' time. Hagrid, who didn't understand "Muggle money," as he called it, gave the bills to Harry so he could buy their tickets. 

People stared more than ever on the train. Hagrid took up two seats and sat knitting what looked like a canary-yellow circus tent. 

"Still got yer letter, Harry?" he asked as he counted stitches. Harry took the parchment envelope out of his pocket. 

"Good," said Hagrid. "There's a list there of everything yeh need." 

Harry unfolded a second piece of paper he hadn't noticed the night before, and read: HOGWARTS SCHOOL of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY UNIFORM First-year students will require: 1. Three sets of plain work robes (black) 2. One plain pointed hat (black) for day wear 3. One pair of protective gloves (dragon hide or similar) 4. One winter cloak (black, silver fastenings) Please note that all pupils' clothes should carry name tags COURSE BOOKS All students should have a copy of each of the following: The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 1) by Miranda Goshawk A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot Magical Theory by Adalbert Waffling A Beginners' Guide to Transfiguration by Emetic Switch One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi by Phyllida Spore Magical Drafts and Potions by Arsenius Jigger Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them by Newt Scamander The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection by Quentin Trimble OTHER EQUIPMENT wand cauldron (pewter, standard size 2) set glass or crystal phials telescope set brass scales Students may also bring an owl OR a cat OR a toad PARENTS ARE REMINDED THAT FIRST YEARS ARE NOT ALLOWED THEIR OWN BROOMSTICKS "Can we buy all this in London?" Harry wondered aloud. 

"If yeh know where to go," said Hagrid. 

Harry had never been to London before. Although Hagrid seemed to know where he was going, he was obviously not used to getting there in an ordinary way. He got stuck in the ticket barrier on the Underground, and complained loudly that the seats were too small and the trains too slow. 

"I don't know how the Muggles manage without magic," he said as they climbed a broken-down escalator that led up to a bustling road lined with shops. 

Hagrid was so huge that he parted the crowd easily; all Harry had to do was keep close behind him. They passed book shops and music stores, hamburger restaurants and cinemas, but nowhere that looked as if it could sell you a magic wand. This was just an ordinary street full of ordinary people. Could there really be piles of wizard gold buried miles beneath them? Were there really shops that sold spell books and broomsticks? Might this not all be some huge joke that the Dursleys had cooked up? If Harry hadn't known that the Dursleys had no sense of humor, he might have thought so; yet somehow, even though everything Hagrid had told him so far was unbelievable, Harry couldn't help trusting him. 

"This is it," said Hagrid, coming to a halt, "the Leaky Cauldron. It's a famous place." 

It was a tiny, grubby-looking pub. If Hagrid hadn't pointed it out, Harry wouldn't have noticed it was there. The people hurrying by didn't glance at it. Their eyes slid from the big book shop on one side to the record shop on the other as if they couldn't see the Leaky Cauldron at all. In fact, Harry had the most peculiar feeling that only he and Hagrid could see it. Before he could mention this, Hagrid had steered him inside. 

For a famous place, it was very dark and shabby. A few old women were sitting in a corner, drinking tiny glasses of sherry. One of them was smoking a long pipe. A little man in a top hat was talking to the old bartender, who was quite bald and looked like a toothless walnut. The low buzz of chatter stopped when they walked in. Everyone seemed to know Hagrid; they waved and smiled at him, and the bartender reached for a glass, saying, "The usual, Hagrid?" 

"Can't, Tom, I'm on Hogwarts business," said Hagrid, clapping his great hand on Harry's shoulder and making Harry's knees buckle. 

"Good Lord," said the bartender, peering at Harry, "is this -- can this be --?" 

The Leaky Cauldron had suddenly gone completely still and silent. 

"Bless my soul," whispered the old bartender, "Harry Potter... what an honor." 

He hurried out from behind the bar, rushed toward Harry and seized his hand, tears in his eyes. 

"Welcome back, Mr. Potter, welcome back." 

Harry didn't know what to say. Everyone was looking at him. The old woman with the pipe was puffing on it without realizing it had gone out. 

Hagrid was beaming. 

Then there was a great scraping of chairs and the next moment, Harry found himself shaking hands with everyone in the Leaky Cauldron. 

"Doris Crockford, Mr. Potter, can't believe I'm meeting you at last." 

"So proud, Mr. Potter, I'm just so proud." 

"Always wanted to shake your hand -- I'm all of a flutter." 

"Delighted, Mr. Potter, just can't tell you, Diggle's the name, Dedalus Diggle." 

"I've seen you before!" said Harry, as Dedalus Diggle's top hat fell off in his excitement. "You bowed to me once in a shop." 

"He remembers!" cried Dedalus Diggle, looking around at everyone. "Did you hear that? He remembers me!" Harry shook hands again and again -- Doris Crockford kept coming back for more. 

A pale young man made his way forward, very nervously. One of his eyes was twitching. 

"Professor Quirrell!" said Hagrid. "Harry, Professor Quirrell will be one of your teachers at Hogwarts." 

"P-P-Potter," stammered Professor Quirrell, grasping Harry's hand, "c-can't t-tell you how p- pleased I am to meet you." 

"What sort of magic do you teach, Professor Quirrell?" 

"D-Defense Against the D-D-Dark Arts," muttered Professor Quirrell, as though he'd rather not think about it. "N-not that you n-need it, eh, P-P-Potter?" He laughed nervously. "You'll be g-getting all your equipment, I suppose? I've g-got to p-pick up a new b-book on vampires, m-myself." He looked terrified at the very thought. 

But the others wouldn't let Professor Quirrell keep Harry to himself. It took almost ten minutes to get away from them all. At last, Hagrid managed to make himself heard over the babble. 

"Must get on -- lots ter buy. Come on, Harry." 

Doris Crockford shook Harry's hand one last time, and Hagrid led them through the bar and out into a small, walled courtyard, where there was nothing but a trash can and a few weeds. 

Hagrid grinned at Harry. 

"Told yeh, didn't I? Told yeh you was famous. Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin' ter meet yeh -- mind you, he's usually tremblin'." 

"Is he always that nervous?" 

"Oh, yeah. Poor bloke. Brilliant mind. He was fine while he was studyin' outta books but then he took a year off ter get some firsthand experience.... They say he met vampires in the Black Forest, and there was a nasty bit o' trouble with a hag -- never been the same since. 

Scared of the students, scared of his own subject now, where's me umbrella?" 

Vampires? Hags? Harry's head was swimming. Hagrid, meanwhile, was counting bricks in the wall above the trash can. 

"Three up... two across he muttered. "Right, stand back, Harry." 

He tapped the wall three times with the point of his umbrella. 

The brick he had touched quivered -- it wriggled -- in the middle, a small hole appeared -- it grew wider and wider -- a second later they were facing an archway large enough even for Hagrid, an archway onto a cobbled street that twisted and turned out of sight. 

"Welcome," said Hagrid, "to Diagon Alley." 

He grinned at Harry's amazement. They stepped through the archway. Harry looked quickly over his shoulder and saw the archway shrink instantly back into solid wall. 

The sun shone brightly on a stack of cauldrons outside the nearest shop. 

Cauldrons -- All Sizes - Copper, Brass, Pewter, Silver -- Self-Stirring -- Collapsible, said a sign hanging over them. 

"Yeah, you'll be needin' one," said Hagrid, "but we gotta get yer money first." 

Harry wished he had about eight more eyes. He turned his head in every direction as they walked up the street, trying to look at everything at once: the shops, the things outside them, the people doing their shopping. A plump woman outside an Apothecary was shaking her head as they passed, saying, "Dragon liver, seventeen Sickles an ounce, they're mad...." 

A low, soft hooting came from a dark shop with a sign saying Eeylops Owl Emporium -- Tawny, Screech, Barn, Brown, and Snowy. Several boys of about Harry's age had their noses pressed against a window with broomsticks in it. "Look," Harry heard one of them say, "the new Nimbus Two Thousand -- fastest ever --" There were shops selling robes, shops selling telescopes and strange silver instruments Harry had never seen before, windows stacked with barrels of bat spleens and eels' eyes, tottering piles of spell books, quills, and rolls of parchment, potion bottles, globes of the moon.... 

"Gringotts," said Hagrid. 

They had reached a snowy white building that towered over the other little shops. Standing beside its burnished bronze doors, wearing a uniform of scarlet and gold, was - "Yeah, that's a goblin," said Hagrid quietly as they walked up the white stone steps toward him. The goblin was about a head shorter than Harry. 

He had a swarthy, clever face, a pointed beard and, Harry noticed, very long fingers and feet. He bowed as they walked inside. Now they were facing a second pair of doors, silver this time, with words engraved upon them: Enter, stranger, but take heed Of what awaits the sin of greed, For those who take, but do not earn, Must pay most dearly in their turn. 

So if you seek beneath our floors A treasure that was never yours, Thief, you have been warned, beware Of finding more than treasure there. 

"Like I said, Yeh'd be mad ter try an' rob it," said Hagrid. 

A pair of goblins bowed them through the silver doors and they were in a vast marble hall. About a hundred more goblins were sitting on high stools behind a long counter, scribbling in large ledgers, weighing coins in brass scales, examining precious stones through eyeglasses. 

There were too many doors to count leading off the hall, and yet more goblins were showing people in and out of these. Hagrid and Harry made for the counter. 

"Morning," said Hagrid to a free goblin. "We've come ter take some money outta Mr. Harry Potter's safe." 

"You have his key, Sir?" 

"Got it here somewhere," said Hagrid, and he started emptying his pockets onto the counter, scattering a handful of moldy dog biscuits over the goblin's book of numbers. The goblin wrinkled his nose. Harry watched the goblin on their right weighing a pile of rubies as big as glowing coals. 

"Got it," said Hagrid at last, holding up a tiny golden key. 

The goblin looked at it closely. 

"That seems to be in order." 

"An' I've also got a letter here from Professor Dumbledore," said Hagrid importantly, throwing out his chest. "It's about the YouKnow-What in vault seven hundred and thirteen." 

The goblin read the letter carefully. 

"Very well," he said, handing it back to Hagrid, "I will have Someone take you down to both vaults. Griphook!" 

Griphook was yet another goblin. Once Hagrid had crammed all the dog biscuits back inside his pockets, he and Harry followed Griphook toward one of the doors leading off the hall. 

"What's the You-Know-What in vault seven hundred and thirteen?" Harry asked. 

"Can't tell yeh that," said Hagrid mysteriously. "Very secret. Hogwarts business. Dumbledore's trusted me. More'n my job's worth ter tell yeh that." 

Griphook held the door open for them. Harry, who had expected more marble, was surprised. They were in a narrow stone passageway lit with flaming torches. It sloped steeply downward and there were little railway tracks on the floor. Griphook whistled and a small cart came hurtling up the tracks toward them. They climbed in -- Hagrid with some difficulty -- and were off. 

At first they just hurtled through a maze of twisting passages. Harry tried to remember, left, right, right, left, middle fork, right, left, but it was impossible. The rattling cart seemed to know its own way, because Griphook wasn't steering. 

Harry's eyes stung as the cold air rushed past them, but he kept them wide open. Once, he thought he saw a burst of fire at the end of a passage and twisted around to see if it was a dragon, but too late - - they plunged even deeper, passing an underground lake where huge stalactites and stalagmites grew from the ceiling and floor. 

I never know," Harry called to Hagrid over the noise of the cart, "what's the difference between a stalagmite and a stalactite?" 

"Stalagmite's got an 'm' in it," said Hagrid. "An' don' ask me questions just now, I think I'm gonna be sick." 

He did look very green, and when the cart stopped at last beside a small door in the passage wall, Hagrid got out and had to lean against the wall to stop his knees from trembling. 

Griphook unlocked the door. A lot of green smoke came billowing out, and as it cleared, Harry gasped. Inside were mounds of gold coins. Columns of silver. Heaps of little bronze Knuts. 

"All yours," smiled Hagrid. 

All Harry's -- it was incredible. The Dursleys couldn't have known about this or they'd have had it from him faster than blinking. How often had they complained how much Harry cost them to keep? And all the time there had been a small fortune belonging to him, buried deep under London. 

Hagrid helped Harry pile some of it into a bag. 

"The gold ones are Galleons," he explained. "Seventeen silver Sickles to a Galleon and twenty-nine Knuts

"Ballers"
(feat. Gangsta Boo)

[Hook (2x)]
Ballers we be on some twinkies twinkies
Playa hataz get found stanky stanky
Trickin fat blunts of dat danky danky
Big diamond rings on ou pinky pinky

[Project Pat]
Jumpin out da trizak
Chewin on a sizack
Sippin on some sizurp
Jus slung a bizag
Name iz Project Pat-a
Moet in my lap-a
Stayin on da grind, cuz da loot gonna stack-a
Watchin for a jack-a
You know I'm a mack-a
Whatcha need dog, ? weed or some crack-a
Ice on my pinky
Smokin on stinky
Caught a sucka slippin
Now I'm on some twenties
Flossin like a playa
Golds keep a twinkle
Eyez fire rized
I'm startin to grow wrinkles
Fall up in da clizub
High off of dizub
Famous in da hood, so these hoes show me lizuv
A dope I'm abizove
So don't be a hate-a
You lame cuz da game, cuz you iz a fake-a
My dopes on da triple
My gats at your temple
I'm hungry for cheese, like hungry hungry hipp-o

[Hook]

[Project Pat]
I pack a gat my friend
I'm stayin strapped my friend
My 17 rounds watchin my back my friend
Killaz attack my friend
They on your back my friend
Where you goin be, if you ever step to pat my friend
I keep it real my friend
Blood donors spill my friend
You violatin hatin niggaz'll get killed my friend
Big money deals my friend
Flexin my skills my friend
I'm poppin game like a junky poppin pills my friend
They can't debate my friend
They puul dank my friend
You got your hands out for cheese, but i can't my friend
You get your own my friend
I stand alone my friend
And I'ma shine like a new set of chrome my friend
Bullet to dome my friend
When your alone my friend
Dat hen dog got me off in a zone my friend
Know what I mean my friend
Cuz down here itz all about da ghetty green my friend

[Hook (1x)]

[Gangsta Boo] Wha Wha

[Project Pat] I here you ballin like dat

[Gangsta Boo]
You did me daddy like dat
I'm in da ? dressed to kill on and poppin like dat
So why You hatin like dat
You goin get caught up like dat
I'm chillin heavy understand me baby, we rollin like dat
So can you get it like dat
Yo iz your pimpin like dat
Or iz you callin Gangsta Boo cuz you want it like dat
You cannot get it like dat
I'm in a Lennox like dat
I'm spendin cheese boy please, I'll be corney like dat
I'm drinkin ? like dat
I'm tryna come up like dat
I'm kinda freaky on some x, cuz I'm horny like dat
I'll freak your man jus like dat
Because I sex him like dat
Ask Paul and Juicy boy, I hypnotize em like dat
I got some hoe on my back
I got some hoe lickin cat
I got some hoe on my beeper, but I ain't callin him back
I'm in it to win it like dat
I'm in a zone like dat
I'm in Black Haven like dat
I'm in North Memphis like dat what?

[Hook (2x)]